Internet can be reckoned as the latest discovery of man which has revolutionised his style of working and living. It has totally reduced distance, broken all man-made barriers and made our world a small place. It brought information at our doorstep opening before us what is known as Information Superhighway at the click of a button.
Internet is a network of computer systems that have been connected to each other through satellite, telephone lines and optical cables. Basically Internet is a global electronic community for millions of interconnected computer networks.
Real Internet operation began in 1969 when United State's military used it for the first time. By 1980s it became a tool in the hand of academic researchers and Universities. It was only in the 1990s that Internet was thrown open to the public.
Today every nook and corner of the world is connected through the Internet. Anyone who has a computer, a telephone line and a modem can access Internet. He has to get the services of an Internet Service Provider (ISP) like VSNL, MTNL, Sathyam Online etc. Once he is connected to the service provider, he can navigate or surf the information superhighway using computer software such as, Netscape and Microsoft explorer.
The greatest merit of Internet is that it opens a world of information at the press of a key. It helps to gather information from storage areas of the servers called websites. Today we can get any information on any topic in a matter of seconds.
We can visit libraries situated thousands of miles away, enjoy world famous sights which we have only imagined, talk to people, listen to lectures, read the day's newspapers, transact business, place orders, etc just sitting in our room. Internet can provide the latest information on education, sports, entertainment, science, medicine, general knowledge etc. in seconds.
Internet has improved our communication system. It has provided an exciting and easy mode of communication known as E-Mail (Electronic Mailing system). Today we can send letters and mails to anyone living in any part of the world just by clicking a few buttons on our computer and that too at an extremely cheap rate.
Not only letters can be Send but, we can also chat with our near and dear ones, see them before our eyes just sitting in our room. Internet has made communication, highly fast, cheap, safe, and least cumbersome.
It's educative and entertainment value is also very great. Internet has also widened business opportunities. You can advertise your goods and products in the internet as well as seek jobs, place orders, meet with business magnates, attend international business conferences, deal with stock market, buy and exchange currencies, transact bank business, etc, and this is known as electronic commerce or E-Commerce.
Although, Internet immensely helps man in his day- to-day transactions, yet it is a tool that is often misused. Today thousands of youth are getting hooked to Internet watching things which are not meant for them.
Electronic pornography is ruining our youth. Electronic crimes, illegal piracy into private lives and military software, creating new type of computer virus etc. have become quite common now- a-days.
Internet hankers (those who try to block the working of other internets) are on the rise, creating havoc in the world of business and communication. Too much dependence of man on this man-made machine is also ruining man's innate qualities.
Internet is a great tool which man has invented. Its potential is still not fully tapped. More and more uses of Internet are being discovered as days go by.
It has made our life easy, comfortable, pleasurable and luxurious. Internet has ushered in the cyber age. However, it is high time that its wrong use and negative impact be minimised. If not put an end to, it will strangle our young generation and lead them to moral abyss.
It is very difficult to estimate the area that the internet cover. Also, every second million people remain connected to it with any problem or issue. Apart from that, just like all the things the internet also has some good and bad effect on the life of people. So the first thing which we have to do is learn about the good and bad effect of the internet.
Good effects of the internet mean all those things that the internet make possible. Also, these things make our life easier and safer.
Bad effects of the internet mean all those things that we can no longer do because of the internet. Also, these things cause trouble for oneself and others too.
You can access in any corner of the world. Also, it is very easy to use and manage. In today’s world, we cannot imagine our life without it.
From the time it first came into existence until now the internet has completed a long journey. Also, during this journey, the internet has adopted many things and became more user-friendly and interactive. Besides, every big and small things are available on internet and article or material that you require can be obtainable from internet.
Because of internet, our lives have become more convenient as compared to the times when we don’t have internet. Earlier, we have to stand in queues to send mails (letters), for withdrawing or depositing money, to book tickets, etc. but after the dawn of the internet, all these things become quite easy. Also, we do not have to waste our precious time standing in queues.
Also, the internet has contributed a lot to the environment as much of the offices (government and private), school and colleges have become digital that saves countless paper.
Although, there is no doubt that the internet had made our life easier and convenient but we can’t leave the fact that it has caused many bigger problems in the past. And with the speed, we are becoming addict to it a day in will come when it will become our basic necessity.
On an individual level, the Internet can cause a lot of problems – one of the most significant being procrastination. Procrastination is the habit of postponing a task indefinitely. Social media platforms, such as Facebook and other similar sites, are to be blamed as it is easy to get sucked into them. Countless hours could disappear if the user does not keep track of time.
However, we need to know that the Internet is like a double-edged sword. It has the potential to be beneficial to us, but at the same time, it can negatively affect us if we are not careful. Social media sites are invaluable, but they can cause many negative repercussions, such as procrastination and internet addiction. Moreover, the Internet can host many distractions and illegal activities; hence, one should be careful not to get entangled in it.